Hi and welcome back in this video we're looking at functions.
There's a number of functions that we can use that are built in to sequel and some that are unique to
postscripts sequel and we also can create our own functions which is quite interesting and something
that you couldn't usually do before in relational databases.
Creating our own functions is quite complex and we're not going to be looking at that in this venue
but we're going to be looking at some of the functions that we can use that are already built in to
sequel or unique to Pascua sequel.
I've deleted my views from the last video because they're not really necessary anymore.
And what I'm going to do is just fire up the sequel editor and then come up with a couple of functions
or rather show you a couple of functions that we've already seen before.
The first function that we've already seen before is the Count function which is used to count the number
of occurrences of something so select customers don't first name customers don't last name count just
use not Id ask purchase count and Roamer we can give aliases from customers in adjoining purchases and
we know all this stuff.
That's why I'm going quite quickly.
I don't want to bore you
.
We've seen this before.
Right.
We know that we can select things from customers and we can join it with purchases and they're selecting
column and then we can group it by customer ID and that gives us eventually the customer name only once
.
And then if we do count of purchases ID that gets all of the purchases for that customer and the customer
that is being grouped by and it gives us the count of them.
Similarly we could use some.
And I would add the purchase the purchase IDs together is not very useful data and because the IDs don't
really mean anything to be added.
But these are two things.
Two functions that we've looked at before count and some we used some to calculate the total revenue
generated per customer before.
Okay he has a couple more that we can use and there's a bunch of functions that you probably should
know about.
One of the very useful functions is a Viji for average.
So you can select average items price from items and you can probably wonder what this does is the average
selling price of an item that is and basically the average price of all our right homes together divided
by the number of items
we can also do the average
cost per order.
So not to the average price of our items but rather the average revenue generated per order.
So this would be select average items price from items inner join purchases on items that Id equal purchases
or item id that 72 remember because this gives us the items that we've actually sold.
If we remove this this gives us the items we actually have.
So that's that's the difference that between these two queries.
Remember I'm just going to select staff.
You guys can see this.
Select start from items in a joint purchases.
Give to me the sales that we've made we've sold two fan pens to ink's two hard drives.
If I just select stuff from items this gives me the items that we have which we've put a bunch of pencils
there now but we've also got laptops and one for $15 a pan.
So that's the difference between those two.
We can also do and calculate the sale that has generated the most revenue in our business.
And we already know how to do that using an order by together with me and he has a good point and time
for you to pause the video and try to come up with a sequel that would generate the highest revenue
generating order purchase.
Just try it out because by buying trying and by typing the code out is it going to be the best way to
learn so that the highest revenue sale is where I'm interested.
Just the one highest revenue sale
and I'm sure you got it.
What I would do is select items not name and items not price from items.
And then you would join this with purchases because what we're interested in in the highest purchase
sale and the highest revenue on a purchase on items the ID equal purchase stock item ID.
And as you know this gives me all of my items and all of that prices.
But we can order by items not price
and that gives me the item price ordered assentingly by default.
We can do the sending and this gives me the top most sale the purchase that generally give the most
revenue at the top and then we can do limit one day we can.
This is one way of doing it but it's quite a long way and you have to sort your items and then you have
to limit them.
These things are not free in terms of performance.
So what's best is potentially to do select
max items price
from that and that is going to give me two hundred seventy five point fifty but we lose out on the name
of the item.
So not maybe not ideal maybe not what you want if you were interested in getting the maximum revenue
generated in a purchase that I would do it this way if you wanted to find out the name of the item that
generated the most money then you would need to use the other method.
That's just a small limitation of this.
Okay.
Let's also look at a very useful construct which is called having the having construct allows us to
filter after the aggregation has taken place.
Here's what I mean.
Let's say I want to select a customer's first name customer's last name and the count of purchases ID
as purchase count
from customers.
I'm just doing this quickly and again we've seen this before.
We know what this does this and there's one work but they select the customer name the customer last
name and the count of purchases ID.
If I group by customers don't mind we've seen this plenty of times and we saw it in the beginning of
this video.
In fact I think of the last few I can remember.
But either way this gives us the first name and the last name of our customer and how many purchases
they've done great.
Here's a challenge for you.
I only want to get those customers that have over three orders over three purchases.
Any idea how I might go about doing
so.
There is no way to do it with the stuff we've seen already because you cannot do way count or rather
where purchase count greater than two and three.
If you try to run this it tells you you can put a ware in there.
The way it cannot go after group buy.
Because here you've already grouped and you just can't use where after the aggregation clause which
is the group by.
That's what aggregates the data together.
So we can do this.
So instead of way we just change the word and we use having.
And I actually kind make sense in English grouping by customer id having three purchases or more rather
most of the purchases.
But the column doesn't exist yet.
So we have to do this again.
And that gives us now the customer has more than three purchases.
So this having happens after we have grouped by customer ID.
But before we've selected the columns naturally because it inside the query that selects.
So this column name here isn't available for us to use but we can still use aggregating functions like
count on all of the rows available after we have grouped by a useful construct that lets us in this
case get the customers that have the most purchases.
Once again we go back in time lapse video.
We could create a view for this and that would let us get the customers that have the most purchases
you know all that stuff.
So when we when it comes to interacting with data and retrieving data sequel is actually really powerful
in the way that it lets you organize the retrieval and make it easy for your business people or yourself
to retrieve data.
So we can create a view from this room or we could just leave it at this.
OK so this was a bit of a bit of insight into some of the functions that we can use We've looked at
the count some average and Max and there's a few others that you'll use in the same way like mine which
gives you the minimum.
And there's a couple of others.
Are not very difficult to use.
And if you ever encounter the need of learning about other functions just type it in Google.
How do I do this.
And it'll be exactly the same way.
But it may just be a specialized name depending on the version of post-career sequel you using or how
you know there's no point in me telling you you can use all of this massive list of functions when they
are all essentially the same they just return slightly different things.
And also we've looked at having construct which lets you use aggregating functions down there after
the data the grouping.
So with that said hope you learn something in this video and I see you in the next one.